# Hadron-Collider-Project-in-process-
A project that simulates how a particle moves in a hadron collider by spinning a metal ball inside a ring and is being pushed by electromagents.

This is one of my hardest projects so far, since it has been so prolongued and at the same time very resourse and time consuming. It is by now almost ready and soon me and my friend are going to finish it, but just so it doesn't stay untouched in my project library I will ship it and continue on later. :)

Anyways, since I saw the "physics lab"  sidequest I decided to describe what me and my friend have calculated and how our project works and what it showcases.

PLAN OF THE PROJECT:
The project revolves around hadron colliders. The idea is to showcase how they work, what they do and why do they do it. So a hadron collider is essentially a giant circle (the biggest right now is in CERN in Switzerland which is about 27km (~16.6 miles) in lenght, but in the USA there is a plan to make one that is about 100km (~62 miles) in lenght), that has a bunch of electromagnets. The point of these electromagnets is to push subatomic particles (protons, electrons and neutrons) to near lightspeed and collide them with eachother, hence why's it called a hadron collider. The idea of colliding these particles is to learn about fundamental particles, forces and events near the Big Bang that created the universe. Interesting fact is that the large hadron collider in CERN uses about 1.3 TERRAwatts of power annually which is enough to power 370,000 european households for a whole year (which is crazy to think about). 

THEORETICAL AND EXPERIMENTAL CONCLUSIONS OF OUR PROJECT:
Thus far we have made a lot of calculations and our plan is flawless. We have concluded that a coil with less windings (about 150-180) is best for the induction (how fast electricity flows through the coil) and thus for the impulse power of the coil. The induction has to be very high so that the ball gets pushed with greater force and thus being faster. We have concluded with an experiment with a signle coil and board that this is the best amount of windings. We have calculated the maximum speed + the timings of the coils. With the best timing and counting friction the maximum speed of the ball should be 7,3-7.4 m/s or about 24,3 ft/s. With slightly worse timing and counting friction we get about 4,8 m/s or about 15,8 ft/s. With the worst timing and counting friction we get 2 - 4 m/s or 6,6 - 13,1 ft/s. And you might ask what are these timings. Well the timings are the time between the coil powering on and the induction being at maximum. Since we use IR emmiter and receiver on the boards so that the coils aren't always activated so that they are not overheating, and have impulses rather than just magnetic fields, we calculated that the time between the IR light being obstructed by the ball and the coil being at it's maximum induction and therefore the best timing is when the ir sensors are 1,5cm away from the CENTER of the coil. Finnaly we have calculated that each coil needs about 1,5A of current to operate propperly. That means that to finish this project I need to buy a charger that is at least 6A to support those 8 coils. More on that when we finish the project.

Shout out to my friend who made most of the calculations. He wants to be a theoretical physicist and knows a lot about how to calculate the stuff we needed to be calculated for this project. I was more on the practical and cirquitry side, gathering all the parts for the project, making a pcb design, making schematics and so on. 

Anyways, I'll redact this once the project is finally ready. Until then goodbye!
